# rpsls-graphics-game

When this project was first assigned to the class, I had absolutely no idea what I wanted to do. I was debating whether I should do a button game, pong game, or even a currency converter. Little did I know that rewatching a TV show influenced what my final project should be. In my spare time, I was rewatching Big Bang Theory and reached the episode where Sheldon settles a dispute with Raj by playing a game of “Rock-Paper-Scissors-Lizard-Spock” (RPSLS). Of course, they both played Spock and there was no determined winner. After watching the episode, I went straight to work on my project. In order to complete this project, I broke it up into two working phases: writing a written version of the game that prints its outcomes in the Python shell and integrating the written code into graphics code. The goal of this game is for a player to play RPSLS against the computer that will choose a random object to throw, ultimately deciding the outcome of the game. The player can either win, lose, or tie with the computer; the same outcomes apply for the computer. 
Thanks to one of my lab assignments, I was able to utilize the code I already had for “rock, paper, scissors” and just expand it with new objects: ‘lizard’ and ‘Spock’. While coding all of the possible outcomes of the game, I had to research the rules of RPSLS that Sheldon establishes before playing with Raj:

"Scissors cuts paper,
Paper covers rock,
Rock crushes Lizard,
Lizard poisons Spock,
Spock smashes Scissors,
Scissors decapitates Lizard,
Lizard eats paper,
Paper disproves Spock,
Spock vaporizes rock,
And as it always has been, rock crushes scissors."

While expanding the number of objects in the game, I had to also code the outcomes of the new objects when interacting with rock, paper, and scissors. After about 3 hours coding the outcomes, I troubleshot the code and ran into a couple minor issues. I realized I forgot a pair of outcomes for Spock and when the program was running each outcome after the user puts in spock, it gave me an error message for not printing a statement for if the computer randomly chose paper. After fixing that tiny issue, I went back into my code and double checked if the print statements match the rules of RPSLS in case I either missed or confused one outcome for another. The following day, it took me more than 5 hours to figure out how to integrate this written game into a code using the graphics library.
  
Using the sample button game as a guide for my button game, I made all the necessary revisions to fit my game idea while staying within the structure of the original graphic code. The major challenge when coding my game was integrating the outcomes for each individual object and have it appear with their designated button. It took me several hours of constant troubleshooting and recoding in order for me to get my game to function the way it should. Thankfully, after going through trial and error with one of my buttons, I had a much easier time coding the remaining buttons and their various outcomes. One minor challenge I encountered when coding the graphics and text into my game was replacing the text that appears when you first launch the game to the text that displays the outcome of pressing one of the buttons. I moved several lines of code around in hopes of getting my desired result; however, after a while, I walked away from the code and closed it for the day. The solution to the code came to me at a very late hour and thus, I revised the code and managed to get it working the way I want to. After completing the code, I let some of my friends play my game (they all enjoyed playing it). To play the game, the player must call the program upon opening the Python shell. Once the graphics window appears, the player can click any of the five object buttons to make their move. Once the player clicks an object to throw, the computer will randomly choose an object and print the result of the RPSLS match. The player can play as many rounds as they would like. Once the player finishes playing RPSLS, they can click the “Quit” button located at the lower right corner of the window to close out the game. Despite the several challenges I faced when coding, I enjoyed developing my button game of Rock-Paper-Scissors-Lizard-Spock.
  
If more time was given for this project, I would have added more graphics and animations for a better overall appearance. Photos or drawings of the object the player chooses and the object the computer randomly selects would make the game have more appealing visuals. In addition, I would have separated a title screen and the game itself from one another, while also adding a screen for the player to see if they won or lost the game of RPSLS. Adding music or sound effects to the game would make a great addition to making the game more appealing to anyone who plays it. I am considering revisiting this game once I have more experience with Python or coding in general in hopes of recreating a more complicated design for it while simultaneously looking back at the progress I have made from creating a game with a small amount of basic Python code to more complex and elaborate visual design using more code. 

